# Cargo

Cargo is Rust's build system and package manager. Most Rust devlopers use this tool to manage their Rust projects because Cargo handles a lot of tasks for you, such as building your code, downloading the libraries your code depends on, and building those libraries. (We call the libraries that your code needs *dependencies*.)

## Creating a Project with Cargo

```bash
cargo new hello_cargo
cd hello_cargo
```

## Generated Files

The following are the files generated by calling `cargo new`.

### `Cargo.toml`

```toml
[package]
name = "hello_cargo"
version = "0.1.0"
edition = "2021"

[dependencies]
```

This file is in the [TOML](https://toml.io/) (Tom's Obvious, Minimal Language) format, which is Cargo's configuration format.

The first line, `[package]`, is a section heading that indicates that the following statements are configuring a package. As we add more information to this file, we'll add other sections.

The next three lines set the configuration information Cargo needs to compile your program: the name, the version, and the edition of Rust to use.

The last line, `[dependencies]`, is the start of a section for you to list any of your project's dependencies. In Rust, packages of code are referred to as *crates*.

### `src/main.rs`

```rs
fn() {
    println!("Hello, world!");
}
```

Cargo has generated a "Hello, world!" program for you.

## Working With Cargo Projects

Cargo expects your source files to live inside the *src* directory. The top-level project directory is just for:

* README files
* license information
* configuration files

and anything else not related to your code.

Using Cargo helps you organize your projects. There's a place for everything, and everything is in its place.

If you started a project that doesn't use Cargo, you can covert it to a project that does use Cargo. Move the project code into the *src* directory and create an appropriate *Cargo.toml* file.

### Cargo Commands

```bash
# build the project
# outputs to /target/debug/<project>
cargo build

# build in release
# outputs to /target/release/<project>
cargo build --release

# run the project with cargo
# can be run without running cargo build
cargo run

# check code without generating an executable
cargo check
```

Running `cargo build` for the first time also causes Cargo to create a new file at the top level: *Cargo.lock*. This file keeps track of the exact versions of dependencies in your project. You will never need to change this file manually.